# neeru-wave-web
Submission links and documents for the wave to web hackathon

## References 
  
- [Mark Gahegan (2020) _Usage of inductive machine learning tools such as neural networks and decision trees in Geographical Analysis_](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/j.1538-4632.2000.tb00420.x) Inductive machine learning tools, such as neural networks and decision trees,
ofer alternative methods for classijication, clustering, and pattern recognition that can, in theory, extend to the complex or “deep” data sets that pervade
geography. By contrast, traditional statistical approaches may fail, due to issues of scalability and flexibility. This paper discusses the role of inductive machine learning as it relates to geographical analysis. The discussion presented is not based on comparative results or on mathematical description, but instead
focuses on the often subtle ways in which the various inductive learning approaches difer operationally, describing (1) the manner in which the feature space is partitioned or clustered, (2) the search mechanisms employed to identvy good solutions, and (3) the diferent biases that each technique imposes. The consequences arising from these issues, when considering complex geographic feature spaces, are then described in detail. The overall aim is to provide a foundation upon which reliable inductive analysis methods can be constructed, instead of depending on piecemeal or haphazard experimentation with the various operational criteria that inductive learning tools call for. Often, it would appear that these criteria are not well understood by practitioners in the geographic sphere, which can lead to dificulties in configuration and operation, and ultimately to poor performance.

- [Sutanudjaja et al (2018) _PCR-GLOBWB 2: A grid-based global hydrology and water resources model developed at Utrecht University ,Netherlands_ : Europian Geosciences Union](https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-11-2429-2018) 
This paper summarizes and presents the new version of the model PCR-GLOBWB 2, which consolidates all components that have been developed since the original version of the model was first introduced (van Beek et al., 2011). The new version of the model, PCR-GLOBWB 2, which is able to simulate the water balance at a finer spatial resolution of 5 arcmin, supersedes the original PCR-GLOBWB 1, which has a resolution of 30 arcmin only1. The finer resolution of PCR-GLOBWB 2 allows a much better representation of the effects of spatial heterogeneity in topography, soils, and vegetation on terrestrial hydrological dynamics (Wood et al., 2011; Bierkens et al., 2014). Likewise, it provides a better resolution for visualization that allows stakeholders and decision makers to assess model simulation output more easily and directly for the places they are specifically interested in (Sheffield et al., 2010; Beven and Cloke, 2012). To assess the possible improvements, this paper also presents the first evaluation results from the simulation of PCR-GLOBWB 2 at 5 arcmin resolution and compares them to a 30 arcmin version. As discharge data are commonly used in hydrological model performance evaluation, the simulated river discharge of PCR-GLOBWB 2 is compared to in situ discharge observations from the Global Runoff Data Centre (GRDC, 2014).

- [Vishal K. Mehta et al (2013) _Groundwater Impacts of Water Consumption Patterns in Bengaluru, India._ : JGWR](https://repository.iimb.ac.in/bitstream/2074/12010/1/Malghan_JGWR_2013_Vol.2_Iss.1.pdf)  While growing urban demand has the potential to significantly impact the water resources of distant sources, there is no doubt that it drastically modifies the local water balance. Despite this, very little research has emerged on the natural and modified water balance of urban areas in India. In this paper, taking Bangalore as a case study, the possible impacts of domestic water supply and consumption through lumped and distributed simulations of net groundwater recharge are illustrated.
  
- [Hita Unnikrishnan et al (2017) _Traditional water bodies and urban resilience a historical perspective from Bengaluru_ : Springer Science + Business Media Dordrecht 2017](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/318181875_Traditional_water_bodies_and_urban_resilience_a_historical_perspective_from_Bengaluru_India) Resilience of a city is a measure of its ability to retain or adapt form and function in the possibility of change. This is particularly true of urban water security in a water scarce world. One component of urban water resilience is that provided by historical and traditional water sources such as lakes, ponds, and stepwells. Unfortunately, as cities lose dependence on these formerly important water bodies, they stand neglected and vulnerable to various threats. This paper makes a case for returning to historical reasons for use and disuse of these water bodies in order to conserve them in the contemporary period.
  
- [Zaid Tashman et al (2020) _Anomaly Detection System for Water Networks in Northern Ethiopia Using Bayesian Inference_ : MDPI Open Access Journals](https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/12/7/2897) To detect anomalies, a model for normal water usage is required first. A multilevel probabilistic model of normal usage is trained using approximate variational Bayesian inference to obtain a conditional probability distribution over the hourly water usage data. Then the conditional distribution is used to construct a level-1 scoring function for each hourly water observation and a level-2 scoring function. Probabilistic models and Bayesian inference collectively are chosen for their ability to capture the high temporal variability in the water usage data  as well as their ability to estimate interpretable model parameters.
  
- [Gayathri K Devi et al (2015) _A Review on Hydrological Models_ : Elsevier](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2214241X15001273) This paper discussed briefly about variable infiltration capacity model (VIC), TOPMODEL, HBV, MIKESHE and soil and water assessment tool (SWAT) model.
  
- [ERA5-Land hourly data from 1981 to present](https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/cdsapp#!/dataset/reanalysis-era5-land?tab=form)
    
- [Water levels and shapefiles for administrative boundaries of Bengaluru, catchment areas near Bengaluru and the rest of India and select reservoirs](https://github.com/wri/ReservoirWatchHack)   
    
- [Global Reservoir and Dam Database](http://globaldamwatch.org/grand/)
(GRanD) v1.1 is a product of the Global Water System Project, which initiated a collaborative international effort to collate existing dam and reservoir datasets with the aim of providing a single, geographically explicit and reliable database for the scientific community.
  
- [Stonehunters: The Epigraphic Quest for Bengaluru.](https://www.sahapedia.org/stonehunters-epigraphic-quest-bengaluru)Marked inscriptions of important occasions, usually on the inauguration of a new temple or completion of an engineering project including water structures.
  
- [Conventional knowledge in predicting usage patterns of water from reservoirs](https://nptel.ac.in/content/storage2/courses/105104102/Lecture%202.htm) 
